The thing I really like about you son and atax is that this opens up the power of bringing data into
your applications.
And the nice thing about it is there's a ton of API is out there that you can pull data in from.
So there's ones like YouTube and Twitter and all kinds of different endpoints that you can pull this
information in and then you can display it and make use of it within your application so you don't have
to worry about the data.
You can pull that data in and all you have to do is just utilize that data within your application.
So in this lesson I'm going to show you how to connect to one of these endpoints.
And as you mentioned there's a ton of these out there.
And the one that I'm going to be using today is rest countries.
Eu.
So basically it's going to give us.
It's got a bunch of points here and whenever you load to the end point then you can actually see all
of this data.
So we've got V-2 and whenever I go here you can see that we've got just a ton of Jaison formatted data.
So really when you're looking at this doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
If you bring it into Jaison lint it's going to be lot more readable so it's going to be ordered within
this type of format so you're actually going to be able to read it.
But just so you know all this is basically the same type of file that we saw earlier.
On file where we've got the square bracket indicating that we've got multiple entries within Dusan And
then we've got all of those entries in here and that's what is contained within here.
We've got a ton of information on a bunch of different countries so we're going to be pulling out country
names within our application.
And we're going to get that information from rest countries.
Eu.
So we don't have to worry about rating out 200 different country names and getting all this information
about it.
We can simply just pull it in like that and utilize that data.
So let me show you how to do that.
So we saw earlier how we had lowered a on file so we can also make use of it within the on load as well.
And basically the request on load basically works the same way as making sure that we're ready state
for.
So you can use either one.
And although it does look a lot cleaner.
So let's let's do this format in this lesson.
And of course for some of the older browsers although it might not work so may not work seamlessly.
That's why we always default to ready state.
But for now most of the browsers are supporting on load.
So you can go in and use on load.
So let me show you how to set this up so the first thing that we want to do is we want to do a window
on load and we're going to launch an I.T. application and next let's set up a function in I.T. So a
fire this function off whenever the window loads because we are creating some dorm interaction and lets
add in a button here.
So this is going to be input type because button and then so what this button is going to do is it's
going to fire off and it's going to actually load that content.
So type button ID is going to be we'll just call it my button.
And we'll give it a value of load data.
So basically when you click the button I want to load that data in from this you are also going to grab
that and you are l.
So copy and paste it so I can use it.
And I don't have to actually go back to the page.
And of course there's a lot of different you or else where they've got these recipes.
So we saw that one of the first things we need to do is we need to load that data.
So we're going to create a function and I'm going to load that data.
So this is the one that's going to load.
And this is going to be another format in order to load those requests.
So last time we did see with HTP request so let's set up the variable.
And you always need that first brain you Exham SML HTP request.
So this is always always always the first step in this that we do that HTB request object.
So we set that up and that gives us the ability to make use of it.
The next thing that we know that we saw in the previous lesson is that we open.
So we need to open it to a path.
So I need to see the different method.
So we're going to use get and we are going to look at posts later on next.
We need a U R L So this is the URL that we can post in there.
And then lastly asynchronous.
So keep it at the default of asynchronous scenarios so we open it.
And then in order to initiate it we need to hit send.
So there we go.
So now we're loading that information and we're going to listen for onload.
So previously we can also do it within the ready States or you could use onload and on load we can fire
off a function.
And what I want to do is I want to link to an actual external function.
So it's going to pass through all of that information within that object whenever we're making the loading
of that.
So that whole X H.R. object this is going to be passed through within onload.
So let's do the our output.
So this is when we actually capture the data.
So that means we need another function.
Our output and within this function so we don't need any arguments or parameters.
And what I do is console log out and we're going to use this.
So there we go.
So one last thing we need to hook up our button to launch the loader.
So that's what I want you to do now.
Pause the video add in event listener.
For the button and we've done this many times before.
So she had no problem grabbing it by the ID and adding in the button or choosing a different selector.
So pause the video and add that in.
So if we had an opportunity to add a listener in and I'm going to simply I've got to use get element
by id and I'm going to add that event listener I can add it in here within the night.
So whenever the window object loads let's do document get element by id and grab my button.
And within this one.
Now let's set the listeners add listener and we're going to listen for a click.
And whenever we get a click then we're going to fire off my loader
force.
So there we go.
So we've got our event listener loaded and we're going to fire this off and then all of that should
trigger other functions.
Let's go ahead and see what happens.
So there we go.
So we passed in the ready state object information within our output.
And this is what we're putting in the console.
So basically we're all ready to go to create our element.
So let's retrieved this information and we're going to parse through it.
So this is going to be our response object and we're going to parse through all of this and we're going
to pick one of these names randomly.
So pause the video and try to add into the our output.
So set up a variable here a global variable and we'll call it pick.
And for now it's not going to contain anything.
So what I want you to do is within our output to generate from this returned response of all of these
countries I want you to grab a random country name by default.
So good.
Pause the video and add that into the script and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So you had an opportunity to try that out.
And the objective of this exercise was to grab that response information so we know that we get this
back as response text.
So if you were trying to get that information back it's all contained in as response text.
So when I refresh N.F. I lowered because we don't need the rest of that object we just need that response
text.
So there we go.
So we've got a ton of data sitting there with the response text.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to parse through this response text.
So let's create a variable and this is going to be my object and this is actually going to hold the
response text information.
And as we saw earlier this is where we can make use of Giese on Parse.
And now let's console log out might object.
So now Instow all of this text it should be more readable.
So let's refresh click the button and there we go.
Two hundred and fifty different countries with a bunch of information and you can pull back and you
can make use of any piece of this information.
So there's a lot of great stuff if you want to get the flag of a country.
It's right there.
You've got languages you've got the short formats the alpha codes.
It's a lot of stuff there.
So you've got the capital cities lot of information is contained within there.
So now that we've got that within the response text we need to loop through it and pick one randomly.
So this is what we saw earlier where we've got the math object.
So let's set up a variable pick and we're going to get that information that's contained within my object
and we need to pick one of those 250 at random.
Now we don't always know that the length is going to be 250.
It might change.
And this is where having dynamic applications is really important because when you're pulling data from
an external source you're actually losing control of what's being output.
So you actually have no idea that all of a sudden a new country pops up and there's 251.
So you have to make your application flexible enough to accomplish that.
And that's what we're going to use the length and we're going to multiply it by that.
And we know that we've already got the length of you there.
So this is what we've done before as well where we're doing math random and we know that with math random
if we multiply it by a value then we're going to get random values so my object is the value that we're
going to multiply it and it's actually my object length not just my object.
So basically that's going to pick out a random country.
So let's see if this works.
So let's refresh and basically allows us to pick random countries from the list.
Now he can make use of that information.
So next step and in the next lesson we're going to be covering more of this.
Let's make a game out of this.
So what I want to do is I want to return back the name so we know that we can get the name because it's
within an object.
I want to randomize the characters of the name create two different outputs areas here to allow the
user to guess what the country is and we're going to check all of the different letters.
And if they get the letters in the correct order then we're going to show the correct ones.
So basically it's going to be a really simple rudimentary name guessing game pulling out a name of a
country at random.
So we set up the basics of and next we need to create an input field for the guess we need to create
two fields one for the actual value the randomized value and then the other one for the players guess.
So let's take care of that in the upcoming lesson and go back.
Also within the earlier lessons where we were able to shuffle the word order so that we could put in
a string value and we could randomize the order of the characters.
So think about that as well but we need to create a shuffling of the order of the characters.
We're going to go back to when we looked at that what we could do with strings and Javascript in one
of the earlier lessons and the next lesson we're going to build at this game.
So show you how to do that.